Bellabeat Case Study Documentation
Disclosure
The purpose of this documentation is to present the case study and the steps taken to tackle the issue at hand. The approach used to complete this case study is the one thought by the Google Data Analytics Certificate course available on Coursera which involves the following 6 stages taken sequentially: Ask, Prepare, Process, Analyse, Share and Act.

 

Introduction

Bellabeat is a fictional high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. Their products include smart watches, bracelets, necklaces, clips and water bottles. They also possess an app and different memberships for their users. Bellabeat is a successful small company, but they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. Their team believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. As a result, they have asked the following:

What are some trends in smart device usage?
How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?
 

Ask Phase
Business task: Analyze non-Bellabeat smart device usage data to identify user habits and trends that correlate to Bellabeat’s customers in order to guide marketing strategy.

 

Prepare Phase
Data Set: A public data set called the FitBit Fitness Tracker Data (CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through Mobius) was used for this case study. This data set can be found on Kaggle in the following link https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit. Its content was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. Individual reports can be parsed by export session ID (column A) or timestamp (column B). Variation between output represents use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors / preferences.

Storage: The data set was downloaded from Kaggle and locally stored in the computer for further use.

Bias and credibility:

The dataset only contains data collected in between 03.12.2016 - 05.12.2016 meaning, this data may not be relevant anymore due to its age.
The data was collected from 30 users only, whereas according to a quick google search the current estimate of active Fitbit users is of 31million people indicating that the sample only accounts for 0.000096% of the total population. For a confidence level of 95% and a margin of error of +/- 5% the size of the sample for the given population should be of 385, i.e an additional 355 user data is needed.
According to the case study information, BellaBeat operates worldwide, however this dataset does not include where the users are from (their location could affect their behaviour hence have an effect on the data).
Overall the data seems to be reliable in the sense that is truthful, original and comprehensive, however it has serious issues with currency, relevance and accuracy in depicting the population as a whole. My recommendation would be to either use a different dataset with more data, or take the time to undergo another survey to collect more data.
